good morning good afternoon good evening
hope you all are doing well
welcome back
to the beginnings
of the hunt
hope you all are doing well hope you had
a good wednesday and you're ready for
another
another bangers folks like i said
these two classes
i'm putting all i got into them
these are the secrets the tips i've
learned over the last 10 years condensed
into one
session on how to get through your
technical interviews and so we got a lot
of really important stuff to get into
tonight things that are literally going
to be the game changer when it comes to
you 360 slam dunking through your
technical interviews
we had a lot of cool stuff before we
even got started
and different hey thank you for the five
get the cells thank you for being here
hope you're doing well
we also had the raid hellos rufio with
114 let's go
there ain't nothing better to do before
this stream than rufio's stream coming
through with the stream team and we got
melody dev coming through in another
raid as well
come on now when are you getting on the
stream team when are we making this
happen
and uh blah
said this is one of their favorite
classes i can't
that's it folks let's wrap it up right
there
law's favorite class one of lost
favorite classes you know what you're in
for hey
what's going on everybody enough said
exactly
they're at 155 let's go
let's go
bangers only indeed so
a lot of fun stuff to get to tonight a
lot of things that we're gonna start
putting in practice things to start
putting in motion
so that over the next few weeks we get
ready for that hunt we need to we need
to start sharpening our spears we gotta
start building our shields we gotta we
gotta get ready for the hunt and so
on tuesday
we talked about all the little things we
have to start doing to open all those
doors that are gonna help us to get the
technical interviews
and then once we have the interviews
tonight's class is going to prepare you
for them
a lot of folks
we know this
a lot of
folks go into this process
like an accident
so syrah hey how you been hey thank you
for the five you get the subs
hope you're doing well thank you for
being here
hey this is awesome thank you for being
here hope you're doing well
like i said folks
people a lot of people go into this
process like an accident they they learn
how to code and then they start clicking
apply you know you know one of those
people that just
they're just they're just doing this all
day long
they're just clicking
clicking clicking and then then a week
later
a week later
they're upset
leon i applied the 400 jobs i didn't
hear anything back
you did the process wrong
so on tuesday we talked about how to do
the process right and all the little
things
that you can do to open the doors right
now like i said i'm going to show you
how to play the games up to you to play
them
i showed you a lot of different doors to
open it's up to you to figure out if you
want to open each and every single one
of them but if you open them
the opportunities will start coming your
way and when the opportunity prevents
itself
we're going to be prepared
and tonight's class is about being
prepared
when you
see those referrals come through you get
the interviews how do we pass that first
sniff test how do we get to the
engineers and how do we satisfy their
two most important questions can this
person code and do i want to work with
them for the next two years i'm going to
show you how to slam dunk both of those
questions so you get the offer
zim joining from zimbabwe hey
that's what's up thank you for joining
us hope you're doing well
all right
i'm excited
we're going to talk about that
professional checklist the things that
are on it just to make sure we're all on
the same page we're going to talk
briefly about the hit list again because
i i honestly believe the hit list is the
most important thing you could ever
do to get a job
hands down most important thing then
we're going to talk about the interview
process like what does it actually look
like
what does it actually look like to go
through the process like from from
referral to offer what does that whole
process look like what are some of the
things you should expect
and then we're going to learn the two
secrets to knocking these interviews out
the park it's car and prep folks if you
master car and prep you will do well in
your interviews and it's something you
can start practicing today and in fact
your homework is to start
practicing it
cool
alrighty folks
i always like to start off
i always like to start off with
answering some questions
answering some questions and so my
question of the day
before i answer y'all's questions
my question of the day was how many
folks
did you endorse
on linkedin
how many folks
because i added all of y'all to the
linkedin group
too many 100 plus 79 5 ten
fifteen twenty five eight twenty so many
come on now
i i don't i don't think that's enough i
just
i i don't i need you to do another round
folks i need to i need to do more i need
to find five random folks to endorse
please
because i added you all to the linkedin
i had a thousand plus of you all
yesterday
added a thousand plus of y'all yesterday
so y'all in there and i did it about
like an hour ago i added more folks now
remember
i said if you didn't have a picture you
didn't have your profile filled out i
wasn't going to add you so if you got
denied fix those things and try again
and i'll add you on the second time you
we inside exactly
all right
the link is in the slides again you can
also do exclamation point linkedin if
you haven't joined our linkedin group
yet it's a great place we're going to be
using it throughout the rest of the
program you need to be in that linkedin
group so we can do the things that we do
like endorsing each other uh and all the
other kind of special things we have up
to just get that ball rolling folks
remember there's an algorithm to be
played here right so we're doing these
little things that are going to increase
our algorithmic chances of recruiters
reaching out to us and this is one of
the first ones
cool
you got questions because i got answers
as a ux ui design junior can i join the
community yes but you can no longer
refer to yourself as junior if you want
to join this community we don't use
those words around here
you're either a ux developer or you're
not we don't like that word around these
parts
why are there so many recruiting
recruiters prowling lately i'm telling
you if you do all these little things we
talked about on tuesday you start to get
you start to get that inbound interest
and there's a game to be played folks
and most people don't know how to play
the game
they don't know what they're doing they
go into this process like an accident
but the more you do the things we talked
about on tuesday the more interest you
get and then we're gonna show you how to
capitalize on that interest tonight
this is probably the worst part of being
a developer the recruiter spam so i
agree but here's what you do
you have a
canned response right i have a canned
recruit response hey i'm not currently
looking for new opportunities but here
are the things that would make me be
interested i list the salary that would
make me move i list the tools and
technology i want to work on and the
space that i'm interested in
if you ain't paying me big bucks and
it's not focused on education that's it
this is where this conversation stops
right but if you do hit all these boxes
send me an email please
so having those canned responses for the
recruiter spam can be really helpful
someone from google recommended not to
put a head shot because companies don't
want to be biased yeah don't put a so
remember
some advice is us specific is this
different in some countries in the u.s
don't put a
photo on your resume
some recruiters are instructed to
immediately throw those resumes in the
trash can because they don't want to get
into some sort of legal kerfuffle
because of the way you look
right and so
the advice in the u.s is not to put on
your resume now some countries
that's like a huge you must have like
there are some countries where if you
don't have your photo on the resume it
ain't going to work so it's going to be
on you to know kind of what is the
acceptable standard in your area
how should we use the resume now even
though we haven't built the hundred
hours project the other two big projects
that are provided well you still have
some other projects that you've built
throughout program you might have
already got your client your freelancing
or your volunteering or your
contributing to free software all those
go on the resume to start pumping it up
and any of the projects that you did
work on
talk about them in a beautiful way every
single person that did the html and css
class they have built a
project for a hair salon or barber they
built a project for a restaurant for now
those can be on your resume as the
filler until we get to the more media
projects
yeah a lot of asian companies uh require
the photo that's what i've heard yeah
how can you be sure it's a legit
recruiter and not a scammer um i don't
send anything until i've done my like i
send my can respond if it goes further
you got to do your research you got to
dig into the company you got to make
sure that the emails match up we'll talk
about that in the future
i had a potential client and she asked
what was my ballpark because she has no
idea i tried asking your ballpark she
has no idea how can i approach the money
talk you throw out a big number and if
they react to it then you're fine so
we're talking 100k then and they'll go
heck no not 100k then they go oh so like
what's reasonable to you that's it
everybody has a ballpark number
[Music]
should we add recruiters to the hit list
uh yes but remember the hierarchy is
like the the hiring person or the hiring
manager engineers and then recruiters
you're trying to look for all three when
you're adding a company to your hit list
so if we're going for 60 networked
applications you're going to have
probably at least 180 people on that hit
list
photo on your portfolio is fine yeah
photos on portfolios are pretty common
cool
do you have a hit list doc yeah we have
it's the you can do exclamation point
sheet
uh how would i know if my idea for my
100 hours project is too involved well
you take your 100 hours project and you
boil it down to the simplest thing you
can do
for that project so any project can be
boiled down into doing one thing
do that one thing and then add features
as you have time within that hundred
hours so really you could have any idea
in the world and you can boil that idea
down to the simplest easiest thing to do
for that one idea
see if there's a way to accomplish that
and then that's what you do and then as
you have more 100 hours you add on to it
can the 100 project be a game i highly
recommend that you don't use games for
your hundred dollars project they need
to be full stack web applications games
have too much of a smell to them
uh so yeah full stack web applications
or what 100 hours project should be user
logins they're doing something you know
now those doesn't mean you can't build a
game like that that's on you have fun
with it but for the 100 project it's a
full stack web application because
that's what people are going to hire you
to do
cool
alrighty folks
we got some questions in
let's jump on into it
how do we make a user login we're not
there yet we haven't gotten to the back
end yet
cool
all right folks thank you for the
questions i think we got the whole crew
let's keep pushing
all right if you haven't checked in yet
please go ahead and check in
there was a tweet today go ahead and
like and retweet please if you do
exclamation point check-in
that'll give you the link to the tweet
you can go there
like and retweet please remember that's
how we take attendance
if you want to do all the goodies that
we do at the end of program we need to
make sure that you are here for class to
go ahead and like and retweet please
also let folks find us we've been having
so many new folks in chat
uh i i've seen at least 20 new folks
today in chat which is wild
so it's working folks are finding us and
not spending 20 grand on a boot camp and
i love it
alrighty thank you for checking in
youtube i'm up to date on youtube folks
let's go turn up 10 seconds nine is your
warning
seven six five four three two one
[Music]
just a little one just a little one i'm
caught up on youtube uh i i know a lot
of folks that
follow us here at 100 devs uh can't join
us live
i totally understand that that's why we
have the ketchup crew
and the ketchup crew it sucks when you
have to watch them on the the vods on
twitch because the vods on twitch have
ads but the youtube channel is not
monetized so you can watch all of our
glorious class videos uh ad free baby
and so we're caught up to speed last
tuesday's class
is on youtube uh so if you're watching
us on youtube what's up hope you're
doing well uh please like comment and
subscribe it does help more folks find
us i appreciate y'all
all right no class friday
uh i'm gonna push our car class to next
friday i need a little bit more time to
prep for sunday because sunday is our
super review
so no car class tomorrow we're going to
push that to next friday and sunday is
going to be our review
we're going to go hard in the paint on
sunday so i need a little bit more time
to prep like examples and stuff like
that and so uh if you want to review the
from the beginning to now in terms of
javascript and preparation for the back
end well that's what sunday super review
is for
no idea how long it's going to go we go
until folks
until we hit the end
i try really hard to plan out each class
to hit that three hour mark but these
super reviews there's no way for me to
estimate how long we go so sometimes it
goes three five seven we did a nine hour
one last time
we go until we go so if you want to
review all the javascripts before we hit
back in that's what sunday is for
alrighty folks
remember you have a fresh start if
you're catching up you were behind you
missed a few homeworks you've missed a
few check-ins now is your fresh squeaky
clean start meaning that you can start
checking in starting now
you can start submitting your homework
starting now and we're all good in my
book fresh start
cool
next week we're hitting up the back end
so if you're excited to get into back in
web development you're excited to learn
node that's what we hit all of next week
so join us on the super review on sunday
that way you're ready and prepared for
back end next week
all right remember
networking started this week remember
we're open all these doors folks opening
all these doors the opportunity can come
our way our networking picks back up
one coffee chat this week please
we're going to pick back up the steam
we're going we're going to get back to
our normal networking level but this
week one coffee chat please
remember client deadline tuesday may
17th if you haven't gotten a paid client
that's your deadline if you haven't
volunteered at your deadline to get that
volunteer contract or contribute to free
software
you got a fresh start folks
got a fresh start bring it across the
finish line
do you need to be proficient in js
before moving to the back end
proficient's a weird word i think you
need to know some javascript we want to
we want to be comfortable with it but if
you've been here with clash you're
comfortable enough as we continue on
node we'll keep working on our
javascript skills if you're doing your
code wars every day you're doing your
yankee every day that's more than enough
to jump into the back end people always
think the back end is super super
difficult it's not and i know it's
really weird to say
it's not really learning things that are
difficult it's about connecting
the the back end is really just like a
really messy maze and once you know how
to connect all the dots to the maze that
that's all it is and so we have a lot of
folks that get really anxious about the
back end and then two weeks in they're
like wait a minute i can build full
stack web applications it's only been a
few weeks yes that will be you um of
course you can always go super super
super super super deep into it but the
basics that we'll cover in the beginning
you can pick up pretty quickly
yeah i think there there are some folks
that really do think the back end is
easier yeah i agree with you threx
cool
we need inspiration for 100 hours
project that's on you
you got to pick something that you're
passionate about something that you want
to bring into this world i can't give
you ideas for your 100 hours project
because you won't want to do them my
hundred hours ideas are all around
pokemon and chess i don't know if that's
what you're into so i don't know if that
would help you right and cook yeah there
you go and cookies mine are all cookies
pokemon and chess related ideas can't
can't help you unless unless that's your
interest right and so you want to pick
something you're excited about something
you're passionate about
and if not divker had one of my favorite
bits of advice uh divaker said if you
can't find something you're passionate
about find something you hate and fix it
right so find something you hate can
also be a a good way to focus your 100
hours project
all right
remember
spaced repetition is key folks we added
a lot of stuff onto your plate on
tuesday and a lot of little things that
you have to start remembering and
putting into practice daily so if you're
not doing your space repetition you're
not using your anki this is the time
that it becomes super super important
especially as we get to the bank today
especially as we get to our behavioral
and technical questions today you gotta
be
using your anki on a day-to-day basis
every day i need you to do two things i
need you to review your anki and i need
you to do a code wars
every single day
if you're saying leon i want to get a
job at the end well i'm telling you what
it takes and it's the yankee and a code
words a day
gets the jobs
to stay
i'm sorry to say but space repetition is
not enough check out some random
youtuber
bs
b
s
i've helped thousands of people learn
how to code i've helped hundreds of
folks get jobs and they did it through
space repetition yes there are so many
techniques that can help and can
jumpstart your learning
that can help you remember things for
the long run but we're talking about in
a short period of time doing the things
that we can do to open the doors and
help people get jobs
i don't trust it i trust what i know
have worked for hundreds of people that
have helped thousands of my students
learn how to code this is the [__]
this is it
i can't i can't deliver anybody else's
experience except for my own and when
all my students come back to me and they
say leon thank you for making me do anki
thank you for making me do space
repetition when i was in interviews and
i was confident when i was in interviews
right when i was in interviews and the
ideas were coming back to my brain when
i was in my behavioral interviews and
things were coming out smooth and like
butter i know it was because of anki so
when i have students from all over the
world telling me that it helps and is
what has helped them get the jobs that's
what i'm going with i ain't listening to
some random person
alrighty folks
stream team
we have a lot of new folks on the stream
team please make sure that you are uh
taking a peek at that stream team
channel we have under the 100 dev
section we have a lot of folks right we
have a lot of folks
that could benefit from being in these
streams whether you're co-working you're
getting some review you're getting some
follow-up right the streaming team's
been putting in work
and putting in work uh and if you would
like to join us give us your contact
information in this form start streaming
a little bit start posting the self
promo we'd love to have you
all right folks
told you on tuesday
that you had a decision to make
that fox saying one of us one of us
told you on tuesday
that we had a decision to make
right
right now there is a window that is open
have no idea how long that window will
be open for it's a window that i've
helped hundreds of folks get through and
on the other side of that window is a
career that is well paid
it is
typically with phenomenal benefits even
things you can't think of some of these
offices have slides in the office like
what
good benefits well paid consistently
year after year one of the happiest
careers
something that's high growth that you
can invest in for the rest of your
working days
and you don't need a degree
you can learn it for free
you got to make a decision
there's only ever been
one thing i've noticed
between a student that got a job and the
student that didn't
and they all made that decision that
says you know what i know that the
trough of sorrow is long and hard and
difficult but i do not give a [__] i am
going to get through it
because i want this
and once they make that decision
and they honestly make it like i see the
fire in their eyes they honestly make it
things are different
the anki gets a little bit easier
the code wars get a little bit easier
when you have that prize in mind
when you say you know what i do not care
if today i don't feel good at this
when i don't care
if
tomorrow i don't feel good at this when
in a month i still don't feel good at
this but you know what i want this this
is something i want for myself
this is something i want for my family
to know that when i have these skills i
can put food on the table i can have a
happy career
we make that decision
life's a little different
so
i don't need you to make it right now
but i hope this weekend
you figure out if you want if you really
want this like honestly not kinda want
it but really want it and if you really
want it
don't go into your next week like an
accident
because if you really want it you would
plan out your week
if you really wanted it you plan out
your week
you figure out what you're going to get
done that week you figured out what
you're going to get done each day
you would figure out how to make time
for the anki and the code wars because
we don't all have the same privilege
when it comes to time with the time that
you do have how are you using it
how are you planning out your week so
that it's not an accident so you can
open all these doors
that are gonna make the thing that you
want
a reality
so i can't make that decision for you
i can highlight a path
i can show you what's worked for
hundreds of my students and the thing i
always tell you
don't listen to me
don't ever listen to some random dude on
the internet
that's trying to pitch you on a on a
vision or a dream
because that's how you get got
go look
in our celebrations channel on discord
go look at our celebrations channel
on discord look at the hundreds of
people
hundreds of people that have gotten jobs
don't listen to me
go look at the pin post i can only pin
50 of them they won't let me pin anymore
down
right go look at the 50 that i pinned
and then look at all the other ones in
that channel look at the people that
share on twitter
hundreds of folks that have gotten jobs
thanks to the community that we've built
i saw something that i was really
excited about today somebody somebody
somebody that was from 100 deaths that
got a job i did i don't have their
permission to like i don't want to put
them on blast i haven't talked to them
yet but i'm going to talk to them and
maybe i can share what it is that they
were talking about
themselves and they said something that
that made me feel really good inside
they said that you know like how you say
you can say like that you're self-taught
they had that they were community taught
right
they came to 100 devs
they learned they worked with this
community and they were community taught
i love that that's one of the best
things i've ever heard
and so you don't have to listen to me
go listen to the members of our stream
team go listen to our alumni go in that
celebrations channel and see all the
folks that have followed this path and
have gotten phenomenal jobs
there's an opportunity folks
there's a window open
and you got to make a decision
because the next few months i'm going to
be honest are going to be hard
and not and not so much the learning the
learning yes will always be a little bit
difficult
but it's a lot of work it's a lot of
little things that we have to do to open
as many doors as possible
and i know some people get really
stressed at this point in time but
here's the deal
you don't have to open all the doors
it's weird i know you don't have to open
all the doors but you have to open
enough of them for the opportunities to
come your way
not everyone has the same privilege when
it comes to time not everyone has the
same privilege when it comes to their
loquaciousness then everyone has the
same privilege of time when it comes to
interacting with other human beings
so you have to open as many doors as
possible doors that
feel good and are conducive to who you
are
so you can have those opportunities come
through not every door might be open if
you can open all of them great
kudos to you but
you got to figure out which ones you can
and then over the next few months work
as hard as you can to open them
so i don't want to hear leon
you know what i i'm i just don't i just
don't talk to humans too good
great
there are so many other things on this
professional checklist that has nothing
to do with talking to humans you better
have the best blurb i've ever seen you
better have the best portfolio i've ever
seen you guys have the best resume i've
ever seen the best github that has gifts
all the way through
twitter on point linkedin on point
endorsements out the wazoo an angel list
that is that is
a cover letter that's for each company
cover emails for each company you better
be using grammarly to make sure that
like come on
none of this i'm not good at this one
part there's too many things here it's a
full list thank you stephanie it's a
full list there's too much here for you
to focus on one thing
we don't play that here no more
there's dozens of doors to be open it's
up to you to open them
cool
all right
while i have this open yeah somebody
said grammarly is a game changer so one
thing that i do
right
one thing that i do
is i have a profile for each of like my
different things that i do so like i
have a profile for like my personal
stuff i have a profile for 100 devs a
profile for rc
um a profile for
a bunch of different things like chrome
profiles and that's why i can do sketchy
stuff like this
and feel really comfortable at the end
of the day
right because i i only use this profile
for rc and teaching
right
but i have different profiles for
different stuff
and the cool thing about having
different profiles is that you can have
different
uh plugins or extensions for each of
those profiles
right
i can have different extensions for each
of those profiles so i don't like
grammarly running on my personal stuff
because what grammarly does is it reads
all the things that you
type and makes you sound better
makes you sound more professional gets
rid of your grammatical errors right and
so i don't want that running on like my
personal stuff but all my professional
stuff hell yeah grammarly do your thing
right and so
i recommend having a profile for the
hunt
like a chrome profile just for the hunt
where it's super focused on all the
stuff you're gonna need for the hunt
including doing things like installing
grammarly so that you can i ideally fix
your poor grammar because no matter how
good you think you are writing we
sometimes just don't write too good and
it can help you catch stuff
right
so having different profiles
specifically for the hunt can be a
pretty
a pretty good good idea here
cool
all right folks
like i said doors open
up to you to make that decision when you
make the decision i'm here for you
gonna we're gonna we're gonna see this
thing to the end we're gonna make sure
that if you want to put in the work
there's a pathway to do it
we're gonna get those jobs and like i
said don't ever listen to just me don't
ever listen to some other youtuber don't
ever listen to some random person on
twitter always look for the proof
always talk to the folks that went
through the experience and i'm telling
you just go in that celebrations and
channel and see the folks who did it
all right
i mentioned this on i met this on
tuesday
i knew it
like i said i'm going to show you how to
play the game it's up to you if you want
to play it because people hate this [__]
people get angry
nerds and some nerds get some some get
angry i get some emails i get some
tweets
nerds be mad that's all i'm gonna say
read it
i don't
i don't know that like
what i'll do is maybe on on sunday as
like a fun thing i'll read out the stuff
that i got that was pretty spicy
uh i'm just at the point where i am
personally just trying to ignore people
like not like ignore but like i always
like i'm just not going to feed into it
right you know just for my own like you
know my own like sanity but like you
know i'm not going to feed into it so so
i'm just going to let it wave over but
i'm just going to let you know
people get real mad i read one of the
emails out on stream last time people
get real mad about this stuff and guess
what
i got some stuff tonight
i know i'm getting emails on like i know
i'm getting an email leon you can't do
that you can't tell them to do that nah
go [__] yourself and take your gate with
you
know what i'm saying
all right
we're gonna make them angry tonight
they're not gonna be happy about it i'm
gonna be real happy about they're gonna
get angry i'm gonna get some emails i'm
gonna get some tweets i might get a few
linkedin messages i don't check those
though so you can send them to linkedin
all you want
i'm gonna get some dms on discord which
i don't read either
they won't get angry tonight that's for
sure i know it the reason why people say
this is one of the best classes is
because i'm giving the secrets tonight
folks
giving the secrets away people that went
through a four-year cs program and
didn't know all this stuff and they
floundered for a year didn't get a job
and then somebody that comes out of a
free boot camp making more money to them
they get mad
they get angry
they big mad
you know what i'm saying
so
i can't hang them on it either
minus said
as of 5 23 i'm officially a software
engineer finally making over 100k thank
you for changing my life let's go
minus that's huge congratulations let's
go all right come on now 10 second
warning
five four
three two one let's go
[Music]
oh
hey
and we have a lot of folks recently too
minus congratulations that's huge
six figures in the bank i'll take it all
day
uh we have a lot of other folks recently
too so we gotta we gotta i gotta do
better about putting
the congratulations in the slides i'll
work on that um but we had a lot of
folks coming through some folks getting
some big freelancing checks too
that's wild congratulations
like i said folks don't listen to me go
listen to minus
all right
if you haven't already
i need you
to live and breathe this checklist
over the next couple of days
i assigned it for homework
i signed it for homework again and guess
what i assigned it for homework again
because it's important
i didn't just tell you to do stuff i
gave you a checklist for the things that
i need you to do
real examples you can't say leon i don't
know what a portfolio looks like boom
this portfolio got somebody a job
straight out of a boot camp
into a fang company one of my past
students
leah i don't know what goes in the
resume boom example template boom boom
template example there you go can't say
nothing well i don't know what to put on
my linkedin ageless boom checklist go
through it
right so please make sure you work
yourself through this checklist it has
all the things that you need it has good
examples for you to follow and the cool
thing is if you join the linkedin group
you'll see other folks that are doing
the same thing you can all work together
if you if you have questions you can
post on discord or
and have other folks take a peek too
like like work together on this
community
all right come on now
not self-study community studies let's
go
all right
so we got the checklist you can always
do exclamation point checklist
victor hey welcome uh you can always do
exclamation point checklist here in chat
if you need it uh you'll sometimes see
me before class going i need that i need
that form and i'll just come in i'll use
the commands here in chat because i
don't have the links
is there such a thing as too many
linkedin endorsements
nah
no one's ever gonna be like oh this
person has too many people that think
they're good at node
nobody
nobody's like i don't know
too many people think that he's good at
react
too many folks think that uh leon's just
balling out over here with with the with
the javascripts right
yeah just uh
nah
a little too little too good at react if
you ask me
cool
all right now we talked on tuesday about
passing the sniff test
oh
how about passing this
sniff test people people don't like this
people people people get upset when i
say you have a smell but you really do
and
um what you have to realize
is that there are some things we can do
to get past this an original sniff
and if you do these things right
you can get to the technical interviews
where your engineering experience the
things that you've built the things that
you can do can really shine out
but most folks never make it to that
stage because they do all the things we
talked about tuesday incorrectly or more
importantly just don't do them at all
and so we really have to do everything
we can do
to get past this original sniff test and
eventually get to
the point
where our
technical knowledge can be the thing
that seals the deal on the job
okay
now
once you get
past that original sniff test
and you get to
the engineers it comes down to two
things can you code and do i want to
work with you for the next two years so
tonight i'm going to show you two
techniques that have helped my students
dominate this part of the process
360 slam dunk all over these interviews
one is called car
the other is called prep and then i
threw in a third called eu
if you can master car eu and prep
you will be a lean
mean interviewing machine and when you
pair that with networking and getting
referred into 60 organizations you get
jobs
cool
all right so
just quickly to review real quick how do
we get past that first sniff test cozy
welcome how we get past that first sniff
test well we we we've built out our
online presence our twitter's poppin
we followed 50 engineers like i asked
you to do on tuesday
please tell me you started to find your
engineers right it's kind of hard to
find them in the beginning but
look for
hashtags from your area for your city
right if you know that you're going for
remote jobs try and find some remote
hashtags you can follow 50 engineers
that you can really start to interact
with right getting used to that
interaction with other engineers
starting to build that pipeline of folks
you might reach out to when it comes
time to get really into the hunt
right i forgot a this is your reminder i
got you jasmine
that's why we do our review right that's
how we do our review
follow each other that's good but they
if other hundred desk folks don't count
you're just all you're just all from
chicago following each other and
nobody's talking to other engineers yeah
make sure that they're engineers that
are in the space that are from your area
uh that you could eventually
be warm leads for some of these
introductions
my twitter's so basic i don't have
anything to say me too
me too i feel the exact same way
i just don't feel like what i have to
say is worth putting out there i just
don't like i put all my stuff into like
twitch i feel okay but i just don't
i don't know tweet just never made it
made a thing i just it's not in me to
put tweets out there i don't know what
it is i've tried hard i understand i'm
losing out on the content game
but i just i i don't know i just can't i
can't do it but what i can do is
interact right i love interacting with
people's stuff i like having a good list
of folks that i really enjoy their
content i like it i interact with it i
retweet it i'll leave comments on on
things that they're talking about like
that to me is how i do twitter i'm not
really kind of like
making twitter threads and sharing my
soul it's just this is not something i
feel comfortable with right
it's not something i feel comes with so
what i do is i use it as an interaction
right interaction is the only thing that
matters on twitter anyway
right
yeah like i said you find those 50 you
like retweet you go from acquaintances
to people that they're going to like you
somebody has 300 followers they're an
engineer at a company in your town and
you're liking their stuff you're leaving
good comments you're interacting with
them they're going to like you and
they're going to talk to you they're
going to give you a coffee chat it could
lead to a referral that's why we do
these 50. it really does help get you
used to interacting with other engineers
that's something that's a little
asynchronous it's at your own pace it
can help you start warming up to this
networking idea
so i really do like this pattern first
especially if you're somebody that's
really nervous about the networking
portion or the talking the humans
portion
that's where twitter can be a big tool
for you it can really help you kind of
grease the wheels
and and get comfortable engaging with
folks in a way that seems a little lower
risk right i can like and retweet right
that's that's something i think i can do
if i go by a nickname what should i do
for linkedin uh you can go buy a moniker
like you can always use a you can always
use a nickname yeah i think that's
totally fine
as long as that's what you go by
professionally um also every cohort i
have some folks that can't use their
real name um they use the name their the
name that they've chosen right
and so for some reason there's a
security reason they can't use their
real name or things like that that's
totally okay
you can use a moniker a lot of
developers go by monikers that are not
their actual real name
you can use that across all your
profiles if you don't feel comfortable
like if there's a if there's a danger to
you using a real photo
you can use i see folks that do kind of
cartoonerize versions of their photos
bitmoji type things
do things that are going to make you
safe and secure
above kind of like putting your name
everywhere right so if there are those
things you're dealing with that's okay
to do it we've had folks do that last
cohort and still we're successful you
might just have to explain a thing or
two when you get to the offer stage at a
company
that's all and that's an easy
conversation to have or easy once you
practice it
shout out the cast you do have the best
monograph yeah for real right uh what
did the engineer only post non-tech
stuff that's fine that's good
cool would you recommend a business name
not really you don't want to go by your
business name as you're like interacting
with these folks and the other thing too
is that most employers are going to
google you
by doing all these things and using the
same name
and you connect your twitter to your
linkedin to your angel list you connect
your your portfolio like once you start
connecting all these things with the
same name google starts to rank that
name higher and so when you're in these
interviews or you're trying to get past
that sniff test you'll rank higher and
people will be able to find you a little
bit easier
i had a cartoon remember my github and
linkedin still got a job in tech yeah
like as long as you're being consistent
is not something that's too wild like
you'll be fine
definitely a picture of yourself is best
but not everyone has that privilege
elektra's code hey thank you for the
five subs thanks for being here
cool
um
if you have not yet you should join our
100 devs group
i'm asking you to join the 100 devs
group i'm asking you to connect with at
least five individuals from that group
randomly
and uh then endorse them for javascript
node and react please that's how we get
the algorithm going folks get the
trainer moving by doing this i added
like a thousand plus people over the
over the last day or so and so if you
haven't done that yet join the group
i'll add you after class
i looked in picture that was 12 years
old now doesn't really matter i think
mine's about the same i think mine's
about 12 years old too
you know
double my endorsements let's go hey tony
stark that's awesome
cool
what'd i do if i got locked out of my
linkedin give it a little bit of time
and try again
cool
alrighty
remember we're committing to pushing our
code every day we're doing a code war
every day but we're also pushing our
code every day and the reason why we are
pushing our code
every single day
is because recruiters
love those green squares
got more endorsements now than i did 10
years in my previous industry hey sydney
i'd love to hear that recruiters love
their green squares they do it they do
they do right and so you should be doing
your code wars every day and then you
should be pushing that code wars to
github if you're saying leon i don't
know how to push my code wars to github
go and watch our get review class it's a
vod here on twitch
watch that class we literally show you
how to create the repo add your code and
push it to github get those green
squares it really does help if a
recruiter chooses to look at your github
show us how to hack green squares hello
trufio who led the raid here today they
have a stream and they have a vaude
where they walk through how to backfill
your green squares just saying
rufio if you can share me if you could
send me the link
to that vod or if you put it on youtube
or something send me that and i'll send
it out with the um
follow-up message to class or our class
on tuesday if you're still here
you know
that way more folks can find it
cool
all right
and we're doing all these things
uh because we don't want to be one of
these people that apply to 400
applications with no
luck
now we said the most important thing
that we're going to do we're going to
talk about the most important thing that
we had to do and then we're going to
move into our break when we come back
from break i'm showing you the two most
important things you're going to need to
get through your technical interviews
before we get there
i said the most important thing you're
going to need to get the interviews is
your hit list
this hit list is probably the most
important thing you'll do for your
career
at least for all my students that have
gotten amazing jobs the thing that
helped them get the jobs was this hit
list
the hit list is the idea you can use the
sheet if you use the sheet you'll see
that there is this lovely hit list tab
where you can put the companies that
you're interested that have a role
that's a good fit for you
and your point of contacts at that
company this is not something you have
to be obese at yet this is not something
you have to be good at yet we're going
to have a whole class on just building
out your hit list that's right folks you
heard me say it right a whole class
just on building out your hit list
i know there's some things you're kind
of like leon i don't know how to really
go about don't worry we're gonna have
full classes on a lot of this stuff one
of them is our hit list but doesn't mean
you can't start trying now
and so with your hit list you use that
sheet you're going to find 60 companies
ideally locally to you
or if you're going remote you've got to
find those companies that'll hire you
remotely
right 60 companies that you're going to
network your way into
then you're going to find the hiring
manager at those companies you're going
to find the engineers on the team at
that company you're going to find the
recruiters at that company and there's a
process to doing this you can following
them on twitter you can find their
emails using hunter io you can find them
on angels you can find them on linkedin
right there's a process to this but you
need to find them and you need to add
them to your hit list and then start
engaging with them try and get a coffee
chat try and get on their radar provide
some value so that we can eventually get
the referral
cool
remember we said no longer uh we're not
going to reach out to the mamas anymore
we've deemed that not the right thing to
do uh so so no mom at this time but
definitely
hiring manager engineer in the team
recruiter
cool
and the name of the game folks
is never
ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever work ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever
it was at this moment that he knew he
[__] up ever
ever
click apply
never ever just
now
somebody's gonna be like leon but my
cousin's uncle's brother's best friend
twice removed they just clicked apply
and they got a job great
that's good to know
i'm glad it worked for them remember
everything we're doing throughout this
process
is to open as many doors as
possible
right
to open as many doors as possible you
could skip out on some of these things
that's okay
but you're not opening that door
and so all of this is about opening
doors the more the things we do the more
doors that open
this is one of the bigger ones
just clicking apply
really doesn't work
because you're going up against folks
that were referred and recommended so if
you're not getting that referral you're
not going to recommend it it's going to
be harder
especially if you're coming from a
non-traditional background
right if you're coming from a
non-traditional background and you're
just clicking apply
and you're going up against folks to
have a four-year cs degree and an
internship returning their belt
it's just not going to work out
so never ever just click apply
that's a good way to get your resume
balled up and thrown in the trash can
cool
we we committed to this idea that all
right we're going to network our way
into 60 applications we're going to get
60 referrals 30 of them are going to be
high value applications where we do
custom resumes a custom story about why
we're interviewing we're going to have
10 premium applications where we do all
the other stuff plus we're tweeting
about the company we're we're making a
maybe a blog post about the the the area
in which that company operates maybe we
build a little one the two day project
that shows that we can build stuff
that's in the realm of that company
we're gonna talk through how to do all
this don't worry um but that means you
have 30 high value
10 premium and like 20 that are just
normal referred applications you do your
21st right the 21st where everything
goes wrong you find your footing you
find out what works what doesn't work
you find out where your weaknesses are
when it comes to interviewing everyone
has a weakness when it comes to
interviewing the goal is to find out
what that thing is so you can fix it so
we do that with our 20 that are just
fodder then we focus on our 30 and we
wrap up with our premium so by the time
you get to your premium you've been a
leaning interviewing machine for a while
welcome king
cool
you're also committing to a hundred
hours project the hundred dollars
project is one of the most important
things you'll do throughout this program
where you will sync 100 hours into
building an application that is a full
stack web application when you go into
interviews it's a project you can show
this is what i built this is what i can
do it ties your story to why you're an
engineer now
we'll talk a little bit more about that
for sure in the coming weeks
and due
next week i want a description of your
100 hours project and a very very simple
wireframe just a very
uh simple
drawing of what your project's going to
look like you want to get fancy and use
free tools like wireframe cc or figma go
for it but you can even just draw it and
take a photo of it i don't really care
when do we physically start in 100
project tonight because you're going to
start thinking about what it's going to
be and i want an idea
next week
cool
all right now
we mentioned that this is a lot
but the folks that commit to this
process
when that switch flips in their brain
it's something that they want so they're
going to do what it takes
this is how you get jobs folks
this is how you get jobs you do this
process you do these things you open
these doors this is what has continually
helped my students get
jobs
cool all right folks we're at the top of
the hour
let's go ahead and take our break if
you're new around here so many new folks
welcome glad to have you glad you feel
free to join we have a 30 week software
engineering bootcamp everything you need
to go from never having touch code
before to employable
but around here we like to be healthy
learning decode is a marathon not a
sprint you can't thug it out we're gonna
take our breaks
and so we're gonna put five minutes on
the clock if you're able please get up
move around hydrate let your eyes focus
on something that's not the screen
and we'll be back in five
[Music]
all right folks come on back
don't let these uh
jazzy tunes
drift you away
got some work to get into
[Music]
or do we
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's get into this
heisenberg welcome congrats on getting
to class too it's awesome glad to have
you
alrighty
so
we talked about everything we need to do
to get interviews
but tonight we gotta spend some time
learning how to do the interviews
and my goal is to maybe you know and a
little early so you have some time to
think about your 100 hours project
maybe uh start thinking through some of
these car and prep things on your own so
we're gonna try and get there all right
so
we've done everything to open as many
doors as possible we got some we got
some inbound interest coming we got some
hit list building that we've done right
we've got some hit list things that
we've done and so now we need to talk
about interviewing and the actual
interviewing
process so
there is a process
to interviewing now every company is
different
right
every every company is different
every company is different
and
what we have to realize is that
this is a general overview
but each company might use some of this
it might use all of it they might use
none of it but generally after i've seen
hundreds if not thousands of different
companies
through my time
at rc
this is kind of the process that i've
come across
right and so
typically there is kind of three points
to kicking off the interview process you
applied to a job you got recruited for a
job and you got recommended for a job
applying is definitely the worst
recruited means that anything could have
happened like a recruiter reached out to
you
a recruiter might have found you on
linkedin or something like that and then
the third and the most important why
it's highlighted is you got recommended
for a job
when you get recommended like we all are
going to
you can sometimes skip
a few steps in the process
i have seen
when
some love to disdain for applying yes
thank you
i have seen when some folks get
recommended that they will literally
skip a phone screen they will literally
skip a behavioral and they'll go right
to the technical portion of the
interview
so that's why recommendation recommends
recommendations can be so powerful not
only do you actually get an interview
but in a lot of companies you can skip
some of the first rounds of the
interview which is pretty powerful
and so
let's say that it's not a company that
skips around you get your recommendation
into the company there are some steps
that you might go through in a normal
interview process
typically these days there is a phone
screen where you're going to work with a
recruiter the phone screen is just a
fancy word for what
just a fancy word for what
what do you think the phone screen is
it's just a fancy word for the sniff
test right are you a person right
are you a person that should be wasting
our engineering managers time or not
right
it is the sniff test they're gonna
figure out what your background is
they're going to figure out if you're a
good fit for the role
all the phone screen really is is just a
sniff test right if you get past that
original sniff test you'll typically be
plopped into a behavioral interview
don't worry we're going to go through
like all things to prepare but the
behavioral interview is kind of like the
normal interviews that you might be
aware of like the tell me about your
greatest strength tell me about your
greatest weakness like those types of
questions that we just so happen
what leon you need to tell me that there
are 22 behavioral questions that i can
prepare that are on these magical list
of questions that you've prepared for us
yes that is true there are 22 behavioral
questions that you can prepare for huh
interesting cool so you have the
behavioral question where it's not
really any technical questions but it's
questions about who you are what you've
done what you've built and why you might
be a good fit for the role
if you get through the behavioral then
you kind of get to the technical portion
of the interview and this is where it's
kind of different in every company and
it's also very different as we're coming
to coming out of the tail end of the
pandemic i'm starting to see more
in-person interviews again but the bulk
are still remote which is pretty awesome
um but
there's kind of a mix of what can happen
here
um sometimes you'll get asked technical
questions so you'll have some questions
where you'll sit down with an engineer
on the team they'll ask you about your
projects things that you've built
they'll ask you about kind of just your
general knowledge you'll talk about
javascript you'll talk about i don't
know we'll talk about some of the nitty
gritty bits bits of javascript that
we'll learn about when we get to node
right and so they're just trying to
obsess where you are technically but
it's more conversational
you could also have a take home
a take home is where they give you a
problem to work on anywhere from an hour
to a day like i've seen that kind of the
range like normally an hour to three
hour problem that you could work on
typically they give you some
documentation and there's a pretty clear
end goal
you write your code you submit it
there could also be a whiteboarding
session where you whiteboard either
remotely or in person where you're given
a coding challenge and you have to write
out your code on the whiteboard or type
it out in a text editor and then
sometimes there are in-person interviews
where
it can be anywhere from one interview to
like five interviews in one day where
you meet with engineers to have
conversations we meet with engineers to
solve coding challenges together
sometimes you'll pair program it can
really be a bunch of different stuff
but this process like i said is
different every company but that's kind
of a range of what you can expect we're
going to break down today what a
behavioral looks like and what you can
study and how to do it we're also going
to break down how to do the technical
portions and what you can study and how
to do it and then some companies do what
i like to call the wine and dine
interview where they already know they
want to hire you but they want you to
like meet the team you're going to want
to go out to dinner stuff like that and
then you get an offer
bells of abba hey thank you for the five
kids at subs hope you're doing well
thank you for being here
right
and then there's the offer stage once
you get to the offer stage the gloves
come off you can ask all the things that
you want to that you want to know
about the company you can negotiate
we'll have a whole class on how to
negotiate but this is kind of the
general process that you can expect are
you going to break down system design
we're going to cover that when we get to
more of our technical interview practice
so tonight's about kind of some things
you can start putting into place today
but we're going to have whole nights
where we practice this stuff together
cool
so far i can get to behavioral but
nothing after that that's actually a
good sign that means that your your
recruitment process is working well
you're getting that inbound interest but
a lot of people fumble in the behavior
and we're going to talk about why that
might be and they just basically don't
pass that sniff test they don't ever get
to the technical or as we have to say
getting to the nerds
yeah
should you tell a recruiter your salary
range before an interview hell
no
here's here's the magical words i got
i'm telling you folks this is what i do
you ask me what i do i get people jobs
is what i do
if somebody asks you what your
your expected salary range is you just
say
fair market rate for a developer of my
skill set and experience
they say oh what are you looking for in
terms of this role fair market rate for
a developer of my skill set and
experience
leon well what is that number
come on bob you do this way more than i
do i know this is the fifth call you had
today i know you're going to talk to
three more engineers tomorrow you
definitely know what fair market rate
for developer my skill set experience is
and as long as we're in that ballpark
i'm okay
and then if they give you a little bit
more pushback here's how you seal the
deal
they're they're like leon now but really
i need a number
what have you budgeted for the role
got him
right so fair market rate for developer
my skill set and experience if they push
they push you say well i mean you do
this all day what if you budget it for
the roll
boom it's over
they got got
all right so this is the process
you'll get recommended you may have a
phone screen you'll do behavioral which
is kind of like the normal interview
type questions you might be familiar
with then there's some technical portion
it could be a take-home it could be
meeting with an engineer it could be
doing whiteboarding and solving coding
challenges in person
and then you might have like a wine and
dine and then you just get an offer
what i've been seeing the most right now
like the process i've seen with maybe
dozens or so companies over the past
month or so
is that a lot of companies are doing a
phone screen
with a recruiter that's very short
a behavioral where you're meeting with
one person on the team
then a
take home
and then
a um
like a whiteboarding thing but it's it's
digital
so you'll do like a phone screen a
behavioral a take home
and then you'll do coding challenges
with someone and the coding challenges
really haven't been like a whiteboard
where you're
physically drawing we've done a lot in
the past uh you're opening up like a
code editor you're sharing your screen
or you're using one of the platforms
like coderpad and you're typing out
similar to like what a code wars would
be a type problem
all right so that's kind of what i'm
seeing right now
like i said most of my experience is
folks in the boston philadelphia
pittsburgh area i do work with quite a
few remote folks as well so that's what
i'm seeing but your area might be
different
cool now
once you get recommended
there's certain things you have to do
as you go through this process
and so
once you get recommended
there's one thing that i really need you
to do
and that's for you to have a crystal
clear picture
of what the steps in the process are
never
ever
go into your interviews like an accident
always know what you're going into
i can't tell you how many students i've
talked to in the past they're like leon
i was so nervous i didn't know what i
was expecting and i'm like
what do you mean you know what you're
expecting did you ask them
what type of interview you were going
into
here's the dirty secret most
interviewers want to help you
you just gotta ask
so
always ask whoever your contact is hey i
have an interview scheduled for friday
can you tell me what to expect in that
interview
should i expect a behavioral should i
expect a technical right oh it's
behavioral how much time what should i
plan to go through this behavioral
interview wonderful thank you so much
oh i have a technical schedule for
friday can you give me an example of
something i might encounter during this
technical will be more questions will be
more kind of code wars leak code type
problems should i be prepared to
whiteboard
right you ask
don't go into your interviews like an
accent you should never show up for an
interview and be surprised what you're
going to be doing
right
cool so always know what you're walking
into always know what to expect ask
clarifying questions
it it it doesn't like you got to realize
that teams love this
teams want a person that's inquisitive
that's going to ask that's going to be
prepared that's trying to get to know
them right so you gotta ask don't ever
um
don't ever go into an interview not
knowing what you're getting into
it's gonna take some stress off your
shoulders it's gonna make sure that
you're prepared the best for it and i
mean sometimes they lie sometimes you
get got that's gonna happen they might
tell you one thing and something else
might happen but at least
you're not going in
um unprepared
cool
now
this is where i get the most tape this
is where i'm gonna get an email if
you're gonna send me an email just save
yourself some time i'm not gonna respond
to you you don't send me an email i'm
not gonna read it don't don't don't dm
me on twitter like i'm just i just don't
care
your opinion doesn't mean anything to me
um this is where i that's where i get
the most this is where i get the most
tape
all right
once you recommend it
it is your job
imagine a scenario
where if you googled
somebody gives you eighty 80 000
or more
right
imagine just by googling
somebody could hand you 80 000 or more
right because once you get recommended
it is now your job to scour the internet
for every single thing
about their process
every single thing that companies going
to do in an interview you need to know
google the crap out of them go on
glassdoor go on github go on blind
right i mean google like somebody's
gonna hand you an 80k check if you
figure out everything about their
interview process
because it's out there folks
the number of folks that go through an
interview and then put the questions on
glassdoor is astronomical
the number of folks that will strip
share their interview questions on blind
is
astronomical the number of folks that'll
submit a coding challenge and then push
their code to github is out of this
world home let me show you something
i'm gonna do it live too hold on let me
let me pull up my tab here where's my
mouse there we go
i gotta do here just so i don't get got
one second
cool all right
here's my github
let's let's let's let's name it i've
done this before so i know this will
exist let's do like
spotify
interview
oh not and not in leon that's when i
google like
github generally all of gender
look at this
[Laughter]
you got got
look at it
come on now some of these are old
some of these are old but some of these
are from not that long ago
you can see all this stuff oh
the exact question
oh my god this must be their front end
question the exact question
front end interview spotify co coding
challenge
and like not only is it the question
but it's their their freaking answer to
it
right
come on now folks
so
once you know you got an interview
coming up you gotta go to town
go through glassdoor go through github
go through blind go through reddit go
through google like if you find the
answer somebody's gonna hand you an 80
000 check now
the things i get is leon you can't tell
them to do this
no get out
take your gate with you get the [__] out
of my face right
what do you think i'm gonna do on the
job
is that legal why would it not be legal
to google
to google of course is legal
is it legal
what do you think i'm going to do on the
job all day long
i'm gonna google my ass off all day long
so you know what
if they ask the same questions
that they know the interview
that they're going to ask in the
interview if they ask the same questions
that they already know are googleable
you know what
if they ask the same questions that they
already know are googleable i'm going to
take that as a sign that they wanted me
to google it
i'm gonna assume that's part of the test
i'm gonna assume that they're gonna
think that i am
dumb for not having googled it found the
question they were going to ask
and came in prepared
i would think less of you
if you didn't do it
so so many of these companies know their
process is out there but i can't tell
you
how many people are so bad at
interviewing that they don't even google
the company they don't even google the
question they don't even take time to
prepare for that company so the
company's not switching up their process
that's because they don't care they want
you to know it they want to know that
you are prepared going into this
interview
so please
do everything in your power
to research and find out about this
company
to know what you're walking into
and be prepared
cool
so we've got interviews we know what
we're doing
we we're not going to walk into this
interview like an accident we we've
asked the interviewers hey what should i
expect we know that we have a behavioral
coming up we know we have a technical
coming up we've done our best 100 device
try to google the crap out of the
company to find any past questions to
use as part of our prep to find anything
we can about the company to prep um so
now we've we're prepared but how do we
prepare to go into those behaviorals how
do we prepare to go into those
technicals
right
so this is how
i ask my student to prepare is something
that's helped them time and time again
to get
good jobs all right
first thing is the bank there's another
thing engineers hate this [__] i don't
know why they hate it but they hate it
they they hate that i give you this link
this is called the bank
the bank is a list of problems that i
want you to practice
we have the behavioral questions there
are 22 behavioral questions on here that
you need to be a lean mean carrying
machine which we're going to cover in a
few seconds
and then there are 300 technical
questions
that you are going to have
memorized
that are all going to go into your anki
and when you show up in an interview and
somebody asked you about polymorphism
boom you got them when somebody asks you
about
what a callback in node.js is boom you
got them when somebody asks you uh what
what's what's a high order function you
got them
right
all these things
that not only will you know
but you've ankied so much
you're gonna be smooth
it's gonna come out like butter
you're gonna be sitting in that chair
being like yeah
mm-hmm
this is how i answer this question boom
you hit him with it hit him with that
knowledge right and they're they're
asking these wild questions and you're
like boom
right off the dome my friend i got this
i got you let me explain hold on sit up
sit up a little bit for me yep sit down
you got it cool i got you boom here you
go here's how you explain that right it
comes out smooth
because you've practiced
every single day for three months
these questions so when you're in a
technical interview
and they're asking you some questions
you're not gonna fumble you're not gonna
be like i don't know no
you're gonna have a bank of questions to
fall
back on
now is every question on this list no
but there's enough here
so that you can make up something on the
spot
based on the work you put in for all of
these questions
there's 22 behavioral questions on here
not every behavioral question you're
going to have is going to be on here
but there's enough raw material here
that if you prepare these 22 behavioral
questions you can answer every
behavioral question that comes your way
there will not be a single question you
get asked that if you did not put in the
effort for these 22 that you won't be
good at
right then
when it comes to having conversations
with engineers and you're just talking
through your project you're talking
through technical stuff
boom you have all these things off the
dome
that you know that you feel comfortable
with and so you'll never get asked the
question and go
i'm sorry i don't know about that you'll
go oh well i have used this
and i like this for this reason and i've
used it in this scenario right and
that's kind of similar to the thing that
you were asking about right so you'll
never just say i don't know
right
juicebox hero hey thank you if i get
themselves hope you're doing well thank
you for being here
i gotta you called me out i feel bad i'm
sorry i owe you uh i owe you a
a uh twitter message i'll hit you up
i'll send you a message after stream
i'm sorry
she came from my neck
that came from my
neck all right
so we have our behavioral questions
[Music]
thank you i appreciate you juice box i
really do thank you
uh
so we have our behavioral questions that
set up our behavioral interviews we have
our technical questions that set us up
to do well during our technical
you were gonna add these questions to
your anki deck you're gonna practice
them every day when you're when you're
brushing your teeth
boom you're walking working through some
of these questions right it becomes
something that is a part of you for the
next few months so that when you are in
an
interview right
when you're in an interview
it's smooth
it's crisp right
cool now
are there answers to all these questions
yes
there are some folks that have filled
out the bank and have shared it on
discord
but we know for space repetition and
active recall to work that you're way
better off
filling these out yourself
and the reason why it's way better if
you film out yourself is that it'll be
in your voice
you're going to be the person that needs
to answer these questions so it should
be in your voice it should be based on
the things that you remember and
understand and know so you could find
somebody else's answers but it's not
going to be the same so don't do
yourself that disservice put in the time
to work through these questions to
understand them to know them in your own
voice so that when you're an interview
you know what to do all the resources
and the places to find like answers to
these questions uh could be found pretty
much in these like articles here um a
lot of these questions come from other
other person like other people's um
collection of questions i've just put
together the ones i think are really
important
uh there's also some questions to ask
your interviewer for when you get to
that stage uh everything is here for you
cool
we passionately refer to this as banky
at 100 devs and so i really hope that
over the next few months you take some
time to do banky sessions i know
myself and some members of the stream
team will stream banky
i know some folks like to get on discord
and do banky we had a group last cohort
that every day during lunch did banky
for three months
literally every day every day at lunch
they would get on together and they
would work through banky questions on
discord
find community on on discord do the same
thing this should be part of you you're
doing your anki every day you're doing
your code wars every day if you do this
if you do come on now if you do
if you do banky and a cold wars every
day for three months do you think you're
not going to be ready for technical
interviews
do you not think you're going to be a
lean mean interviewing machine it's it's
it's a lot of work
but it the path's clear
there's no way you open all the doors
that we just talked about opening on
tuesday and tonight and then there's no
way if you do your banky and your code
wars every day that you're not ready for
interviews there's no way
no way you're not ready
and you know what
other folks are not doing this
they're just not folks coming out of
other boot camps don't do this
other folks coming out of other boot
camps do not do this
other folks coming out of a four year cs
program definitely
don't do this they learned something
four years ago and forgot about it
you
are studying questions every single day
you're doing code challenges every day
you also have 100 hours project you also
have real clients do you understand how
people got jobs now
right we're doing stuff that other
people don't want to do and that's how
we 360 slam dunk all over their face and
get these jobs
it's not magic
maybe a little magic
give me a little magic
it's a lot of work
abracadabra that's um
like one of my favorite videos of all
time
is uh the loiter scott the lord of
squads abracadabra
abracadabra
it's so good
all right
where can i download more discipline
make your bed
make your bed every day
all right
so we got the bank
now in the bank are these behavioral
questions
okay
so how do we actually answer these
behavioral questions
there is a tried and true method for
answering behavioral questions
and it's called car
cause
action
result
every single question
on the behavioral questions
you should have a three
sentence answer to
the cause
the action and the result so the cause
is what happened
like what happened
the action is the action you took to
solve
that cause
and then the result is why are you
the best engineer ever
because of how you solved that problem
the cause what happened action the
action you took and
the r is the result how are you god's
gift to earth
based off of how that the action that
you took
right and you want to have those three
sentence answers for all 22
of these questions
cause
action
result
cause
there's some key words here
right there's some key words here
uh somebody said what if we get hit up
by recruiters now we don't have the bank
completed i got messaged by an amazon
recruiter what should i pursue
the magic words i got a lot of magic
words for tonight so i said a little bit
of magic right i've been doing this for
a while
the magic word is hi i'm not currently
pursuing new opportunities at the moment
but i would love to reconnect in three
months
can we set up a time to talk three
months from now
that's it that's the magic word
you're gonna if you if you're opening
all these doors you're gonna have
recruiters reaching out to you and when
those recruiters reach out to you
what you want to say is hey i'm not
pursuing new opportunities because when
you say i'm not pursuing new
opportunities that means it sounds like
you're happy at your job you can't pay
me enough to to apply
right
but i'd be interested maybe three months
from now and then you set up a time so
it's already on the calendar so they
can't forget about you
right it's on the calendar you have the
call and in three months you'll be ready
kobe hey welcome
cool
so to answer car cause
there's like two key words i really like
are two ways to start off your cause
at my last company
or at my last opportunity
at my last company i helped four
thousand universities bring their
academic research online
at my last opportunity i worked with a
team of developers to build
web applications for numerous clients
and my last company are my last
opportunities
if you say the word bootcamp you have
lost
if you say the words 100 devs
you have lost
there is no need for you to put
information out there
that doesn't need to be out there in the
beginning
say one more time if you mentioned the
word boot camp
you have lost the interview you might as
well pack up and go home
because that introduces
the smell
number one rule exactly don't
snitch
juice box what about butt camp
[Laughter]
don't stitch on yourself let them dig
let them dig
what are the 100 of course 100 devs on
your resume doesn't mean you have to say
the words i'm talking about when you're
in a behavioral interview
right when you're in the behavior when
you're interviewed you don't have to
mention these things
right you can just say at my last
company my last opportunity because 99
of the time well not nine percent i'm
gonna say ninety percent of the time
they're this there to hear you say
something so they can ask the next
question
ninety percent of the time if you don't
set off any of their alarm bells
they're just going to move on to the
next question and if they get through
all their questions they they give you
the technical interview
right
so no need
to snitch on yourself out the gate
no need to mention anything that might
make them look at their resume again
right
you let them dig
but 90 of the time
they're just gonna listen to what you
say and move on to the next thing unless
you raise the alarm bells so if you say
at my last boot camp boom alarm bells
going off boot camp either bootcamp
you're a bootcamper i don't know about
that did you really learn everything you
need to learn like
you don't say it
100 devs 100 sounds good it's got some
cachet oh what's 100 death now you're no
longer answering the question that they
asked you're talking about 100 devs
which is great
you can say 100 is an agency with a
training program i went through that
training program i worked with some
great clients or you could do that
but it would have just been better and
easier if you set up my last company at
my last opportunity and then answered
your car
because cars should be three sentences
cause action result anything else is
extra and is stopping you from moving
through the interview
cool
let them dig if they want to dig
action
what are the steps you took
to solve the thing that happened that
caused that happen
right
it must
be
positive
there's no time to be humble during the
hunt we are hunting
we are hunting no time to be humble
we're dressed for war
no time to be humble
must be positive no well i stumble in
the night trip didn't it no
no
time to be positive
right everything should be positive
everything should be upbeat no time to
be humble during the hunt
all right so cause what happened
action what did you do positive thing
that you did to solve that cause and
result how are you better because of
what happened how are you the best thing
since sliced bread because of the
actions you took
now some folks are like leon i don't i
don't know how to and like what
that's why we practice
some folks are like leon i talk too much
lee and i talk too little leon i have no
idea how to answer these questions
that's why we practice three months
ahead of time before you start actually
interviewing
that's why we practice
three months before we start actually
interviewing
that's why we're gonna have a cause
action result memorized for each one of
these
and it's gonna we're gonna have it so
dialed in because the anki
that when they ask us a question cause
action result boom it's gonna sound
smooth
you're gonna you're gonna be calm you're
gonna be cool you're gonna be collected
and that's going to come across
right when you're cool calm and
collected that comes across in the
interview as capable
comes across as knowledgeable it comes
across as somebody i want on my team
and so many folks
that get stuck at the behavioral stage
is because they didn't practice the
questions they didn't have real good
examples they didn't have things that
they had worked on that they could throw
out
that actually sounded plausible real
that sounded natural that that helped
you get past that sniff test and into
the technical
and that's why we start now if you're
like leon i don't know how to answer
these questions great we're going to
have classes where i show you how to
answer these questions every single
person here by the time you graduate
will have enough experience at 100 devs
to answer all these questions i don't
care if you've never done anything else
besides 100 devs you can answer all
these behavioral questions based on what
we did here during our time together
because you will all have worked with
clients or volunteered or contributed to
free software you will all have worked
in teams you will all have worked on
sprint teams where you've built real
products you will all have committed to
100 hour projects you will all had
plenty of nights where we did this
practice
together
so if you don't have anything right now
a month or so you'll have enough for
each and every single thing on this list
now if you can sprinkle in your past
experience that's great not everybody
has that privilege
all righty
let's do it live
i haven't prepped these in forever
let's see if we can do some cause action
result together
all right let's bring up the inspector
here
let's see if we can get like an actual
question some of these are like weird
ones but let's see if we can actually
get like a real question
all right 17. hopefully that's like an
actual question
why are you interested in this
opportunity wonderful all right thank
you for your time today
so at my last opportunity i had the
chance to lead a large engineering team
and helped new engineers start their
careers
i'm looking for a team
that is
helping the educational space
and i want to bring my wealth of
experience as an engineering manager to
a team where i can build real products
that help real customers particularly
folks that are trying to change their
careers and or find jobs that they love
so i'm interested in this opportunity
because i feel i can satisfy all those
goals and help build wonderful software
right
this one's really not like a kari
problem it's kind of harder to fit car
in here right but
one of the things that you're going to
see
throughout all my questions
is what there's only one theme through
all my questions
and that one theme i'm going to bring up
no matter what question you asked me
is engineering manager
i've led engineering teams or something
in that vein of
build like building with teams leading
teams engineering manager because that's
the type of roles i'm going to go after
right so that's the type of roles that
i'm going to go after
you're going to hear that theme
throughout all my answers we're going to
do some more we're going to do some more
and we're going to have whole nights
where we practice this right
but i'm going to have those themes
throughout my answers because
what happens at the end of these
interviews right
excuse me and everyone knows this but at
the end
at the end of your interviews the person
that is interviewing you fills out like
a form that says like
higher strongly higher do not hire
strongly do not hire
that's it you like you like you you you
sign
you like they literally they literally
check off a box and then write like what
they remember about you
and so when that person checks
strongly higher i also want them to
write engineering manager
in that little box
that's it that's what i want to remember
right so you're going to notice that all
my kari questions
kind of have the same theme
because i understand the game that i am
playing i understand that if i get
through this somebody's going to say
strongly higher and they're going to
remember the few things that they
remember and so the way that we can
game this is by saying the same [__]
over and over again
right
so you're going to notice some themes in
my answers all right let's try this
again hopefully we get like an actual
real question here
my math right
none of these are like the last ones are
like not the actual questions
oh cool tell me about a time you failed
great question
all right tell me what time you failed
alrighty
so at my last opportunity
we had a very important client that
needed a specific piece of software and
i decided to push a change live to
production late on a friday
that code failed it brought down the
site not only for that customer but 4
000 other of our customers and that
night i stayed up with the team to fix
that bug
but we also put in systems and
strategies so that never happened again
we
made sure to have a team decision to
never push code live on fridays we built
in new testing infrastructure to make
sure things that would break didn't make
it to production and
after that change for the four extra
years that i led that team as an
engineering manager we never had a
breaking build make it to production and
we kept our 99.99
uptime
boom car
cause
action result
what did i do i made a big mistake i
pushed code to production what's the
action i took i put a
a a cultural change in place and a
technical change in place i put a
cultural change that we don't push code
live on fridays we put a technical
change in place where our code is not
tested things that break can't make it
to production and the result well i led
a team
hint hint and we had her uptime going
forward for the next four years
cause action result
i have not made a technical mistake
honestly so i don't know what to say
bs we've all made mistakes we all have
gone to the console
and had and had something not work
right one of my
one of my favorite answers to this
question
right one of my one of my favorite
answers this question was
i once spent three days trying to fix my
code only to realize that it was a curly
brace
so from that point forward i used
linting so that i would never have to
worry about missing my curly braces ever
again and you'll be happy to know that i
have never missed a curly brace in the
past four years right like like that was
a legitimate answer i had somebody
answered that in an interview and i was
like that's the best answer i've ever
heard to this question so i don't care
where you're at there are ways to answer
these questions you just have to put a
little bit of thought into it you have
to think through and answer honestly
these things should be like real right
and you're all going to have
some like you have you have time to
think through these you don't have to be
like i'm doing them off the dome now
because i've done this right like i used
to practice these it's been a few years
but i practiced these until my eyes bled
and like i i knew my [__] right so yeah
i'm doing them off the dome right now
but it's something i put a serious
amount of time in to get better at
and so once again my car brought up this
engineering manager theme and you're
gonna notice that all my answers do it
so every answer should be based off of
our clients and not our past experience
no you can definitely sprinkle in your
past experience as long as you have a
good story
right you have a good story that ties
what you did in the past
to what you are doing now and that's why
crafting your story is the first thing i
asked you all to do
right it doesn't matter what your past
experience was as long as you have that
story that brings you to the current
point and and why all the things that
you did in the past make you a better
engineer
i don't care if you like i i've had
folks that have crushed this that that
had the the completely different careers
that they were able to spin into
experience to why they were showing up
at my door
and so that's what we got to think
through why we spend this time that's
why i asked you to start crafting your
story so we're going to have specific
nights typically on fridays where we
walk through this stuff together we're
going to have another crafting your
story class
you can watch the unlisted youtube video
where i craft five alumni stories live
then we're gonna do it again together
with this cohort then we're gonna have
nights where we practice car
we have nights where we practice prep
right this is the start
of the next three months of our lives
so it's okay if we don't come out the
gate bangers we're gonna work on this
together
the unlisted video is on discord it's in
the
materials i think from last class
all right
civic thunder said i need to pee really
bad can we take a break absolutely all
right let's go ahead and take a break so
civic can go pee
we are at the top of the hour when we
come back from our break if you're new
around here we do five-minute breaks uh
to make sure that we're staying healthy
it's a marathon not a sprint when we
come back from our break
we're gonna move into technical
questions these secrets the tips that
you need to do well during your
technical we've laid the foundation for
our behavioral now we get to our
technical so i will see you all in five
minutes civic hope everything goes well
alrighty folks see in five i'm gonna run
some ads you actually have to take a
break
peace lang
[Music]
thanks jr appreciate it
where's the music oh there we go
matt catch the vod go go go enjoy your
date good luck
now the clan tag is the whole bit it's
it's the whole thing oh
wrong headphones i'm like where's the
music i have the wrong headphones in
you're like leon two sets of headphones
yeah i got it like that's you know you
know what i'm saying
all right folks
come on back come on back
[Laughter]
that engineering manager salary now it's
pd funds
alrighty folks
schedule saturday to complete my
behavioral questions and some readiness
dope
can you check the celebration section
thank you for everything then
i appreciate that thank you
all right folks
come on back come on back we got to get
into the the meat meet tonight folks we
we got
we got through the behavioral
now we got to get through the technical
bangers only
14 hey thank you for the fire get this
subs thank you for being here
appreciate it
alrighty
alrighty folks let's get into it
all right so
there's kind of two phases to the
technical right we talked about there
could be a chance
where you sit down and you're talking
with an engineer and you kind of are
answering some questions you can show
your project things like that
this happens for a lot of my students
interviewing remember i told you that
about half my students
did not have technical interviews and
when i say they didn't have technical
interviews i mean that they didn't do a
coding challenge like a take-home
challenge or a whiteboarding or like a
live coding challenge
they had behaviorals
they answered technical questions they
showed their projects they did things
like that so about half of them that's
where it stops
and so you want to make sure that you
feel really comfortable in these
conversations you're going to have with
engineers we're going to practice you
talking about your 100 hours project
we're going to practice
talking about technical questions and
just like we had car for behavioral we
have eu
for our technical questions
cool
ma yeah join the ketchup crew you're
good we got you
catch your cruise exactly for your
situation
all right we have eu right
explanation
use example
right eu explanation use example so for
all of the technical questions that we
have on here
you want to have
an explanation for it
you want to have a use for it
and you want to have an example for it
for all three
hundred
questions
right
so what does that look like well
one of the questions is about css
sprites so the way i would explain css
sprites using eu is i would say that css
sprites are when you take a bunch of
images and you combine them into one
image
the use for this is that you can limit
the amount of requests that you are
making to a server
because if you have all your images in
one image
now you've turned it from multiple
requests into a singular request which
can speed up some operations and an
example of this would be amazon if you
go to amazon's website and you click on
any of the assets that you see and you
try and pull up the image you will
notice that the the logo the swoops the
anything that's an icon is actually just
one large image and they're only showing
you a piece of it for each portion
of the ui
so that would be my way of working
through eu
where you would have an explanation
about what it is you would say here's
how we would use it and you would have
an example of it in action
all right and so you're going to work
through that for all the questions we
have here and the idea here is if you do
this for all the questions
especially if you do them on your own or
like in a small team or on discord
together
you really start to learn a lot of stuff
that we really haven't had a chance to
cover in class so
not only are you feeling some gaps in
the knowledge that we don't have time to
do together but you're also starting to
talk more like an engineer you're
spending a sniffing portion of your day
during anki talking about technical
stuff
you're talking like an engineer you are
explaining things to other engineers and
so by the time you get into a technical
interview is something you've been doing
every single day you're comfortable
talking about these topics and you have
bits of knowledge to reference so you're
never going to say no sorry i've never
heard of it you're going to say oh well
that sounds similar to this thing and i
know here's an explanation of that thing
here's how i've used it here's an
example of how i've seen it before right
so you you go from saying sorry i don't
know
to at least getting in the right
ballpark with the things that we cover
throughout this checklist so behavioral
questions with car help you get through
that past that first sniff test these
eu's through the rest of these questions
make it so that if your interview stops
at just technical questions where you're
just engaging with an engineer you slam
dunk that interview
right
cool
now last but not least is the technical
whiteboard um
there's two different ways that this
happens um there is like legitimate
whiteboarding
and there is answering of technical like
there's there's like the coding
challenge right there's two flavors to
this there is like where you're
physically answering a technical qual
challenge on a whiteboard and there's
maybe like where you're given like a
code wars and you're typing out the
answer
whiteboarding um used to be
more popular
um but i love this gif right where
whiteboarding used to be more popular
but nowadays if you're going to test
someone's like coding ability you should
probably give them access to like their
tools and like how they would actually
write code and so the actual
whiteboarding test has kind of faded a
little bit it's still there i would
still say like 30 of my students get
like on on whiteboard type tests um but
a lot of them are now kind of just like
regular coding challenges similar to
your code code wars but there's
something you have to understand
and that's that white boarding
specifically and even your coding
challenges have nothing to do
with just solving the challenge that is
something that's a goal
but the actual act of whiteboarding the
actual act of solving these coding
challenges there are some other things
that are just as equally as important as
actually solving the problem
and the big thing here is your
communication and collaboration skills
during the solve
remember there's two things
right there's two things that every
engineer is trying to figure out during
these interviews right they're one
trying to figure out
can you code
and the other thing they're trying to
figure out
is
do i want to work with you for the next
two years
i have had folks that have come into my
whiteboarding interviews yes i still
whiteboard yes i'm a monster right that
have come into my whiteboarding
interviews and they did this
only on the pi square 5.21
[Music]
okay i think that's right
yeah bro you're you're close but
now we're good
we're good
all right
the the the white boarding tests more
than you getting the answer
i want to see how you communicate
i want to see how you collaborate with
other engineers
right here's the thing
most interviewers will even help you
most interviewers want to help you
i took a group of my previous students
uh to google
uh i resume coders we have a partnership
with google and i took my students to
google
and we had their like the way google
does it is like you have interviews and
then like your
your like interviews go to a committee
we had the person that was like the
chair of that committee and the
interviewers in the room and they both
told us
that it is part of their mandate to give
you a hint
to give you a hint
google
you're in an interview they want to give
you a hint
but they can only give you those hints
they can only give you that guide if
you're communicating and collaborating
so this whiteboarding these coding
challenges is so much more than just
solving the problem it's how you
communicate during this solving it's how
you show how well you're going to work
with other engineers during your team on
these problems and definitely when it's
a smaller team we're not talking like
big companies when when the person
that's interviewing is probably the
person you're gonna work with they're
really trying to see can i work with
this person for the next two years can
they articulate when they're getting
stuck can they can they can do they have
a clear thought process right
and so the cool thing is
we can learn to do this
we can learn to do this well
right we can learn to 360 slam dunk
the the softer skills that are being
tested during the white boarding process
and so i'm going to show you
my my patented tips and tricks to get
part through this part of the interview
that's not only going to help you solve
the challenge but it's also going to
help you solve this communication and
collaboration phase of the technical
interview as well now whiteboarding
tests so much more than like i said just
the
the actual coding challenge it tests
that communication collaboration it's a
good chance for the interviewer to ask
specific job knowledge it shows me how
you think under pressure as much as that
sucks uh it tests how well you
whiteboard whiteboarding is like an
actual
skill
like most people that go up to a
whiteboard for the first time don't do
too well so we have to practice it uh
it's also really post really worthwhile
to mention that this is like a highly
debated topic right now uh at companies
a lot of companies no longer whiteboard
because they don't like it
a lot of companies are even moving away
from coding challenges in favor of
looking at your projects um asking you
like technical questions right so
not every company you experience is
going to do this but i need you to be
prepared remember we're opening as many
doors as possible so if you do come
across one of these whiteboarding
sessions if you do come across one of
these coding challenge sessions we're
ready for it
cool so let's talk about the
whiteboarding skills specifically and
then we're going to talk about like
solving coding challenges um because if
you're solving a coding challenge on the
whiteboard or if you're solving it like
on a code wars code or pad type thing
it's the same skills let's just very
quickly talk about whiteboarding in case
you encounter this and then we're gonna
spend more time talking about how to
solve the coding challenge
cool
all right so if you actually
are one of the folks that have to go up
to a whiteboard or or even if you are
solving a coding challenge when the
interviewer is laying out the problem
please take notes on the side
right please take notes of the question
that's being asked of you
right
and the reason why
this is important
is because there's nothing more there's
nothing worse
than getting 20 minutes into solving a
problem only to go
uh
what are we doing again
what what what was
cute can you tell me the
question one more time i'm sorry i know
we've been doing this for 20 minutes can
you can you tell me
tell me the question
now me i never had a problem reviewing
the problem again but for some people
this is like an immediate like we're
done right
and so it's really good to take notes on
the side
very small
just high level stuff and typically i'll
say to the interviewer oh thank you for
the question do you mind if i take notes
as you relay the question please and
they'll say yes please feel free to take
notes you give yourself a little slice
a little slice of the white board and
you just do high-level stuff so you
remember the question all right they're
asking for this this this and now you
have your notes so that even if you get
deep into the problem you still remember
what's being asked of you and what to do
especially exactly when you're under
stress white boarding can be stressful
and so people that heard the question
understood the question 10 minutes in
when things are getting a little more
intense
we'll forget so make sure you take your
notes
make sure you practice writing clearly
uh if you have never written on a
whiteboard
it is
uh it is
a a weird experience
if you have access to whiteboard i would
try practicing on a whiteboard if you
don't have practice if you don't have a
whiteboard to practice on i just use a
white piece of paper
like a plain white sheet of paper and
practice writing out some of your code
wars
on that white sheet of paper
right because you're going to get used
to like spacing you're going to get used
to like how much room your your
handwriting takes up not everyone can be
blessed of having worked with the nuns
like myself so make sure that you are
being mindful of how much space you take
up when solving problems
cool
the other part is be mindful of your of
your actual space a lot of folks that
are new to whiteboarding they literally
run out of space on the whiteboard so be
careful
you can also if you are communicating
with your engineer that that's giving
you the interview this is the golden
thing this is
this is the big brain plays right here
you ready come in get in close big brain
plays right here
to save space
you can put a method
on the whiteboard that says hey
this method does this complicated thing
just to save some space i'm going to put
the method here i'm going to come back
to it
right we'll fill it in a little bit i
just want to this method does this but i
just want to save some space and i'll
come back to it
think about what i just did i skipped
over a complicated bit of the program
by saying i'm saving space and i'll come
back to it
and then i get them going we're talking
we're communicating we're collaborating
we're solving the problem time's up oops
we never got back to filling in that bit
how about i follow up with it in an
email about how i would solve it
and then i get i go to my car
i'm sitting in my car googling figuring
out how i'd actually do it and then i
send them the fully realized code
that's one of the beautiful things about
being on a whiteboard it's a game we can
play it if we want to
right and so whenever i've gotten stuck
on a whiteboard i've used it and it's
worked i would say
75 of the time that's worked but it's at
least worth a shot especially if you
have no idea how to do it
right
and so you just put hey we'll get back
to this we run out the clock and then we
come back later right you're still
solving the problem you're just saying
that this piece we're going to come back
to later right so be mindful of the
space you're taking
and practice whiteboarding is a skill
that you have to practice nobody shows
up to an interview and is good at
whiteboarding if they've never done it
right
and so make sure that you you actually
practice this skill
on the off chance you actually have to
do it like i said most interviews right
now remote a lot of them aren't really
bringing you into the office like the
whiteboarding thing is kind of dying off
a little bit anyway
but it's worthwhile
i love whiteboarding the reason i love
whiteboarding is because my code doesn't
have to run
i can talk my way out of [__]
and i'm good at doing it because i
practiced it
so i love whiteboarding they they want
to put me on the whiteboard i'll take a
whiteboard every single day because my
code doesn't have to run
right so it's worth practicing in case
it does show up now
most of you
right
won't probably whiteboard probably about
30 of you will
uh but a lot of you will have coding
challenges
similar to things like your
code wars or elite code as we get
further on right
and so
my
strategy for getting through
technical coding challenges comes down
to one very important tool
and that tool is called prep
just like we had car cause action result
and eu explanation use example prep is
how we solve
all of our coding challenges every
coding challenge you do from this night
forward you must use prep
every code wars leak code interview
every coding challenge you ever do
right for the rest of your life
is prep
and difference said leon's bad head
writing is also a hack you can't do text
recognition if you can't recognize
exactly see it
you figured it out
bad handwriting is going to get me
through more interviews you got me
it's been my strategy all along
all right prep
parameters returns examples pseudocode
i've taught every single one of my
students to do this for years and it
helps
them get through the interviews if you
are nervous going into code wars if
you're nervous going into coding
interviews this will save you this is
how you get authentic communication and
collaboration it's how you buy time to
solve a problem it makes you look like a
phenomenal engineer and a lot of people
don't know how to do it so you are going
to interview better than them
cool
parameters returns example pseudocode
what the heck does that mean all right
let's prep fizz buzz we're going to do
fizz buzz together
and then we should have plenty of time
for questions we're going to we're going
to prep through fizzbuzz and then we'll
have plenty of time for questions
[Music]
i just need a text editor let me just
open this real quick
all right file new
well new i'm going to save this as
um
i'm going to save this as prep
dot js
cool all right so i just have like a
normal javascript file
and we're gonna walk through prep
when you're first starting out
right when you're first starting out i
recommend that you actually type out
prep like prp at the top
once you are actually in interviews you
we don't type out prep anymore
i see a lot of folks that like do it for
a while
right that do it for a while and then uh
when they're in an interview they're
still typing up prep we don't actually
type it during the during the interview
but we do it while we're practicing just
so we don't forget anything
av noob hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
all right
fizz buzz so we've we've touched on
fizzbuzz during class
but fizzbuzz is a problem where
i want you so i'm going to i'm going to
give you the problem that we're going to
talk through prep
i want you to
uh take in a number
right and i want you to print
is i want you to print that from one to
that number one two
number
if the number is divisible by three
i want you to print buzz if it is
divisible by five sorry i want you to
print fizz
if the number is divisible by five i
want you to print buzz and if the number
is divisible by three
and five i want you to print fizz buzz
instead of the number so basically
you're gonna you're gonna have a loop
and that loop is gonna print from one to
a number
and at any point during that loop if the
number is divisible by three instead of
printing that number we print fizz and
then at any point if the number is
divisible by five we print buzz and at
any point in time the numbers build by
three and five we print fizzbuzz instead
of that number very very very common
interview question uh it comes up a lot
during interviews i think we saw like i
saw like two or three people in chat
that said they had a fizzbuzz problem
earlier today
all right
is it a bad look if you start googling
stuff in the middle of a technical
whiteboard uh yes if you have not talked
to your interviewer about doing it
yeah so typically when it before you go
like you want to make sure knowing going
into an interview can i google remember
we talked about you need to talk to your
interviewer before you show up and know
what's acceptable
all right
cool uh are people still asking this one
hell
yes
uh i've seen this question asked
so far this year from my students
uh and last year i i lost count
uh so here's what fizzbuzz was such a
popular problem
that people stopped asking it
and then it came back with a vengeance
because i was like wait a minute we're
going to actually keep asking it because
if you can't solve fizzbuzz one you
don't know how to code and two you did
not prep for this interview at all
so it still comes up there's definitely
variations of it um there's like there's
ways to make it harder
so yeah it definitely still comes up but
there are definitely variations to it as
well all right so
parameters returns example pseudocode
alrighty so my interviewer just
explained the problem to me and i'm
gonna go say great do you mind if i just
take some quick notes uh about the
problem that you just explained and
they're gonna say yes i'm gonna say all
right wonderful so i have some i just
want to write down real quick to make
sure i understand the problem uh you
said i'm gonna i'm going to print
numbers or return numbers uh one to some
value called that we'll call the number
that you're giving us
and then you're gonna you said that if
the number
is divisible by three we do fizz
and if the number is divisible by five
we do buzz and as the number is
divisible by three and five we do
fizzbuzz instead of the number does that
sound
similar to the question that you just
asked me is that correct all right i'm
asking the interview is that correct
right
and the interviewer's gonna go yes that
sounds that sounds right uh you're gonna
give be given a number that number is
going to go from one you're going to
print all the numbers from one to that
number if the number is divisible by
three you do fizz instead if it's
divisible by five you do buzz instead if
it's three and five you do fizz buzz
instead so now we're on the same page i
understand the problem we've talked
through it i am not ready to solve this
problem where most people mess up as
they go great i know how to solve
fizzbuzz they get really excited they
jump into the problem and
that's not what we're here to test folks
remember
solving the problem is only one part of
the problem we're also here to
demonstrate our communication and our
collaboration
i have so many folks during interviews
that get excited because they think they
know how to solve it and i can see that
they're getting excited i'm like wait
you probably know how to solve this
right
so if you know how to solve it you guys
stay cool
calm collect it you can't show them that
you're about the 360 slam dunk all over
their face right but
i understand the problem all right thank
you for that problem i think i think i
have a good handle on it i just have
some qual like some questions i would
love to ask just to better understand
the problem before we actually jump into
solving is that okay
sure that's great all right so
you mentioned that i am
going to
be given a number right and this is
where the parameter starts remember
parameters are the things that are
passed in to
your function that you're building all
right so you mentioned that i am
taking in a number i have some questions
about this number uh will this number
always be a number
right will always be a number and you're
gonna say yes it'll always be a number
wonderful so it'll never be a string a
boolean undefined another function i can
assume that you're always gonna give me
a number
yes it'll always be a number great so
i'm gonna say it's always gonna be a
number now will this number ever be uh a
floated value okay have like decimal
places or will always be a whole number
yes it'll always be a whole number great
so it'll always be a whole number
i will never be a negative number you
said 1 to the number so whatever be
negative no it'll never be negative all
right so it'll be positive the whole
time uh so i understand i'm taking a
number it'll be a whole number it'll
always be positive or it'll never be
anything other than a number is there
any other kind of things that might be
passed in that i haven't clarified here
in terms of it being number whole
positive is there any other kind of like
gotchas that might that you think might
come up here
no okay wonderful so i feel pretty
comfortable knowing that i'm gonna be
taking in a number
and i just want to clarify what i am
returning to you and so returning to you
you said you want me to return all these
numbers is it okay if i like print them
to the console or do you actually want
me to return these numbers as we're
going through oh i can print into the
console wonderful so
i know that i'm not going to actually
spit anything out of this array like i'm
not giving you i'm like sorry out of
this function like i'm not going to give
you like an array of all the numbers uh
i'm not going to give you anything other
than like console logging each number as
we go along
so just to make sure you would like to
see a console log of each number so if
this runs correctly we would see the
number one get console logged and then
every number up until the number you
gave me
wonderful all right so i feel
comfortable knowing that we're taking in
a number only a number that'll be a
whole number it'll be positive i feel
comfortable knowing that we're going to
cons along all the values do you mind if
i give you an example before we jump
into solving this problem
sure all right so i'm just going to go
ahead and set up my function here
and i'm going to call this function uh
fizz buzz
you said it was fizz buzz right it was
fizz buzz not fizz biz fizz buzz right
yeah fizzbuzz all right so i'm gonna
call this fizzbuzz
fizzbuzz
and uh i know that i'm taking in a
number so i'm just going to put my i'm
just going to call my parameter num here
so now i'm taking in a number and then
i'm just going to go ahead and set up
some test cases here so i'm going to i'm
going to call fizzbuzz
and i'm gonna pass in the number five
and i'm gonna pat i'm gonna call
fizzbuzz here
and i'm gonna pass in the number three
and i'm gonna do one other one here buzz
and it's going to be a bigger one sorry
we're going to do 15 here and so for
this first one
since we're going to start off with the
number one
uh one is good then we should see two
and then the very first time we hit
divisible by three it should be fizz
then four
and then
buzz because we hit five
does this look correct to you
and and then that we should see in the
console the numbers one two fizz four
and buzz
cool
all right let's let's do this other one
here three it should be a little quick
we do one two and then fizz right that
looks correct
right because one and two are not
divisible by three or five we finally
get to the first team divisible by three
so instead of putting three we do fizz
beautiful and then we have this last one
that's bigger down here i'm just going
to copy this real quick because we
already did the first five numbers here
so no need to redo them
so we'll do fizz and then the next one
will be the next one would be six so six
is divisible by three so we should see
fizz then we'd have seven eight
then we would have fizz again for nine
then we would have a buzz for ten
then we would have 11
fizz for 12
14 and then this is the very first time
that we have fizz
buzz
cool
does that look correct
does this look correct in terms of kind
of what we're expecting to come out of
this problem
right we we know that we're taking in a
number
that number we've confirmed is a whole
number it's positive we'll never have
anything other than a number we know
that we are console logging each of
these values we've done some test cases
does this all seem good
cool
so at this point
i have set up my test cases
for a very particular i've set up these
test cases for two reasons
right
there's two reasons why i set up my test
cases why do you think i do test cases
what are your guesses why am i doing
this
buy time it does buy you some time these
test cases are definitely how you can
run out some of the clock here
running up the clock is definitely
something fun that you can do
we'll talk about why that could be
impactful if you're running out the
clock they often can't give you a harder
question to follow up
and as long as you've been communicating
with them the whole time it would be on
them to say
hey we have a second part to this
question that we need to get to right
and you kind of already asked them uh to
clarify what the process would be right
so yeah we we can run the clock we need
to uh it shows you your process and we
we actually know that we're doing the
right thing right we understand that we
are
doing what the interviewer is asking us
of i've had so many folks that have come
in and interviewed that have built out a
wild solution that works only to not
actually solve the problem i asked of
them
right
that i have not asked of them right
and so this really clarifies it and then
the other thing is i have my receipts
i have my receipts if the interviewer
decides to change the question
a half an hour into me solving the
problem
i go whoa
we ran these test cases you said this
was correct where did this where did
where did
bob come from we did fizz buzz where did
bop come from there was no bop here
you said fizz buzz where did bob come
from right so you have your receipts
cool now
this part of the process we're still not
done
right we're still not done we've done
the prep
we've done the parameters like the thing
that's coming in the number we've done
the return what we're what we're what's
coming out of the function we've done
our examples we still have our
pseudo code
right so now i'm going to come back into
my function and say all right um
since i know that we want to go from one
to the number that's being passed in
that sounds like a loop to me
uh so i'm gonna go ahead and do a loop
here i'm gonna loop just from one to
that number
and then inside this loop i'm gonna
check to see uh if the number's digital
by 3 5 or 3 and 5. and so i know to
check to see that if it's divisible i'm
going to use some conditionals that are
going to use a modulus i'm going to have
mod 3 i'm going to have
mod 5 and i'm going to have
mod
and 5.
and actually as i'm typing this out i'm
noticing something interesting here
i'm noticing if i wanted to do like the
number 15
and i did my modulus in this order
uh 15 mod 3 would be true but i wouldn't
get fizzbuzz i would get fizz so i know
that i have to do the three and the five
i think first let me just go ahead and
do my my logic cube
i'm just gonna do my my mod
three
and five here
and so i think if i do that first i'm in
a good spot
uh and then inside of each of these
conditionals i am just going to go ahead
and console log
the uh the the answer like i'm gonna
either console.log the number or
the fizz
buzz
slash
cool
all right does this seem like a good
direction to go about solving this
problem
and they're going to say yeah
at this point
they would give me a hint
most interviewers want to give me a hint
they might have said i i've told people
i have told people hey
you're doing three and five you should
probably try three and five first can
you tell me why
can you tell me why
right i've given them that hint when i
seen that their pseudo code was
incorrect so now
i know
what's coming into the problem i know
what's going out of the problem we have
some examples that we've all agreed upon
and my pseudo code is at least in the
right ballpark
all before i even attempt to solve the
problem
if you have a
45 minute interview
the first 15 minutes of your interview
should be this
if you start actually trying to solve
the problem within the first 15 minutes
you have [__] up
you have failed the communication and
collaboration part of the interview
you might go down a wrong path
you might not have thought through an
excellent solution i have had so many
engineers jump right into it
and i didn't get to see the
communication i didn't see the
collaboration i didn't get to
see how they thought through the problem
that's what i'm trying to figure out can
you code and do i want to work with you
for the next two years do we work
through problems in a similar way can
you take hints can you take instruction
can we work together
and so prep is super
super super important it's something
that you should do with every single
code wars that you do going forward
every coding challenge you go forward
you should do prep prep should be part
of your daily practice so that by the
time you are actually ready to interview
you feel comfortable talking through all
the parameters you feel comfortable
talking through all the returns you feel
comfortable working through examples you
feel comfortable working through your
pseudocode you feel comfortable talking
to your interviewer conveying your ideas
explaining your thought process letting
your letting the problem marinate in
your brain so you can actually figure
out how you're gonna solve it
this is the way folks
my students that really invest in
prep
right invest in prep they make it part
of their daily practice they just do
phenomenally well in interviews way
better than other engineers that don't
do this process that don't know how to
communicate that don't know how to
collaborate that don't know how to think
through their ideas and don't know how
to show it in a process that can be
understood
so we've we've talked a lot tonight
we've had a lot of little things to work
through i'm not even going to solve the
problem
you you can go ahead and do we've always
done fizzbuzz before this is this is
this is important right we've done the
prep
cool
all right
i know we've covered a lot between
tuesday and tonight
we've talked about how to open the doors
on tuesday's class we talked about how
to get through the technical interviews
in terms of car eu and prep it's a lot
to put on your plate lots of little
things so i want to make sure we got
like 20 minutes left or so i want to
answer answer some questions that i see
in chat and then we'll do a raid uh
definitely stay for these questions i'm
sure there's a lot of things are going
to come up that are really important to
discuss
would you do all that even for fizzbuzz
yes even for a problem i know is super
simple i still do prep
because it's not about solving the
problem
it's about the communication and
collaboration as well
especially for problems that i think are
easy because if the problem's too easy i
know a follow-up question that is harder
is probably coming after it
does the whiteboard have a standard size
no a lot of tech companies just have
full on walls that are whiteboards
what about virtual whiteboarding it's
not really too much of a thing i've seen
one or two companies that do it honestly
but you're more likely if you're doing a
remote process to do
a coding challenge
where you're working through a coding
editor similar to like code wars
do you use prep for code wars yes every
single code words you do should use prep
going forward
can i get some endorsements nah i don't
actually add folks until they graduate i
definitely don't endorse until you
graduate
should we look up technical questions we
haven't gone through yet absolutely
uh you can do exclamation point
the bank or execution point bank to get
the technical questions
rufio does a great job of showing prep
with code wars i agree rufios has done
streams
working through code wars with a full
prep process definitely want to watch
their past streams
can you give a tip if there's a question
where you have absolutely no idea how to
answer you try to give something that's
at least close to what they're asking
um so you you it'll be rare if you if
you do full banky
and you've built out your project it'll
be rare that you don't at least have
something that you can hinge on to a
question
um
and so i would i i literally
would never say i don't know i would at
least say oh that actually kind of
reminds me of where i think it's in the
same vein as this tell me if i'm wrong
and i would give something at least
something and then they go actually
that's not what i was thinking about
like oh okay that makes sense then right
does a company hire remote for other
countries they can
um
but it's it's definitely harder to get
hired remotely especially if you're
trying to like work for like a u.s
company remotely it's definitely it's
definitely harder the thing i recommend
folks that are looking for remote
opportunities is to look for companies
with a global hiring process
we'll actually share a list later on
when we do the hit list together where i
show you
a list of 80 companies that
hire globally and we build out a hit
list based on those companies so that's
actually we did that last cohort so you
can actually find that video on youtube
where i built out a hit list
specifically of companies that hire no
matter where you're located in the world
what does bank stand for oh it's just a
bank of questions yeah a question bank
on an acronym
do the behavioral questions need to
relate to code or tech
um
like the one about working on the
pressure i have a lot of examples from
teaching but can't think of any from
code no they do not have to be from code
or tech although ideally they come from
coder tech as long as you have a story
about how your teaching has made you a
better engineer then you are free to
answer questions using your teaching
experience but that has to be part of
your story so that when you're answering
those questions there's a connection
between what's being asked and what your
answer is
what do you think of things like triple
bite for the job hunt process
uh
it's one one small door
i don't put all my eggs in the basket
but you might wanna as well try it right
doesn't hurt
you gotta think that you're you're going
for 60 recommended applications if
triple bytes one of those sure why not
should we remove the open to work filter
on linkedin is it helpful or harmful
um we have to ask danny this one i i
we're gonna try and get danny to come on
and talk us through like linkedin best
tips
um i think it's okay
um
but i don't have any data to support it
it probably does help a little bit with
like the algorithm in terms of
recruiters reaching out but i don't have
any definitive data on yes or no if it
helps their harms but i will ask folks
that i trust
can i still have access to all these
videos on youtube and twitch for the
next one to two years i have no plans of
taking down any of the videos yeah and
none of my content will ever be behind a
paywall ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever ever
a lot of people are interested in me but
after noticing i'm a sophomore in
college they stopped considering me how
do i avoid this stop telling them that
you are a sophomore in college
just don't mention it you're probably
snitching on yourself because i
every single day i help folks get jobs
that do not have a degree at all that
have never gone to college so you're
probably snitching on yourself
uh do you have any advice on how to plan
out the prep uh it's up to you to figure
out like what your time and your
schedule is but you need to like this
like i always say you can't go into your
weeks like an accident you need to plan
time for your prep in code wars you need
to plan time for your bank you need to
plan time for updating your professional
list we will have some class time for
this but you really do have to find that
time and that and that's why i said this
it's not i honestly don't feel like it's
hard i just feel like it's a lot and
that's that's why that's what makes it
hard as we go throughout this part of
the process
i started reading about data structures
and algorithms and finding it really
interesting is it too early for that
probably because there's so much stuff
you have to focus in on right now that
we will get to data structures and
algorithms we will cover them in really
approachable ways that make it so it's
easier for you to solve your your actual
questions during technical challenges so
i would hate for you to be focusing on
the wrong things miss that part and then
not be at the place you need to be
i'm getting an associate's degree in cs
this month how can i land an internship
for next summer
um so the the college internship process
is very cyclical um
it's not i mean
are you going to continue your degree or
are you just looking for it because if
you're not continuing your degree then i
wouldn't go for an internship i'd just
go for a job and then all the advice and
how to get a job and how to get a job
class applies yeah i don't recommend
internships unless they have a
conversion the full time and they pay
the same
hey that's great glad to hear it
um hacker rank is very similar we mainly
use just code wars and leak code
throughout program
what kind of project can we do if we are
an uber driver food delivery driver uh
one of my students that actually went to
amazon that was an uber driver they
built an app to compete with uber that
was a delivery app that gave fair wages
to the drivers so i thought that was
pretty cool
it's something that tied their past
experience into their current experience
and it was good enough to get them a
role at amazon
how are we turning in our freelance
contract i'm just going to ask for it
like a normal document
how far back do we want our github green
squares to go
um at least throughout this year
i was if i was trying to play the game
do companies cover the cost of moving to
another country if they choose you
some companies do some companies don't
do i need to add 100 devs on linkedin to
get added to the group no you do not as
long as you just join and you have a
picture and like a filled out profile
you get added to the group
cool
if i come to your cohort with a
background in game development would it
be wrong to have games i've made uh no
absolutely not there'd be great things
to have in your portfolio when i say no
games i mean like don't have like
tic-tac-toe or like like the normal
cheesy games that bootcampers build
is machine learning part of tech do you
have content on it we have a little bit
of machine learning content uh microsoft
sponsored some of our streams last last
cohort uh and we used their open source
machine well not sorry they we we used
their open machine learning tools uh to
um build out some cool stuff
they have some wonderful like machine
learning apis that we used
do you think 100 is going to get so big
that recruiters know it's a boot camp
probably
and then they're gonna know that we have
amazing candidates that they're gonna
want to hire
they seek us out that's the long-term
goal
you mean we should backdate our pushes
all the way to january i mean
it's up to you
if you have any advice on becoming a
mentor
i would like to work with the new
developers outside of work just support
people
we got so many people on discord that
could use your support just do it that's
it that's all i need to do you'll get
better at it over time
make sure that when you when you uh seek
to help that you also seek to learn
it's now a good time to hone in on banky
daily code wars getting all the
checklist items completed um yes you
should start like tonight
like we're gonna end a little early take
some of that time to plan out what your
week's going to look like what the
month's going to look like
and then get to it
i had a coffee chatter throw a bit of
shade saying we're an agency yeah it's
called a gatekeeper you're going to run
into those folks
that's why we that's why we have so many
folks that we're reaching out to not
just one or two some people are [__]
they can't help it
how many people have you seen go through
us that are above 40. we have a pretty
decent number of folks that are above
40.
hundreds
uh
cool
all right i think we got some through
some good questions tonight
uh i hope you had some fun i hope you
learned some stuff hope you learned some
of the secrets here to to to
to learning how to get through this
interview process i really do hope that
you walk away at some things that you're
going to fundamentally change about your
experience of how you're going to
interview
so um if you missed our first class on
tuesday it is up on youtube i would
really appreciate that you give it a
like
and leave a comment and just let it play
so we keep those retention numbers up
a lot of people if you saw all the new
folks posting here tonight they're all
coming from youtube so i appreciate
everybody that stops by the youtube to
help support now let's go ahead and do a
raid rufio streaming what let's go all
right
hold on let's go and set up this raid
all right hello it's rufio streaming so
of course we're going over to our stream
team member all right everybody have a
wonderful night i will see you on sunday
for super
review
super pumped thank you for learning so
much stuff tonight let's raid
oh 10 seconds
[Laughter]
please do you please put these things
into practice start doing your prep
all right folks peace let's have a good
night great
peace youtube thank you
really appreciate all the support on
youtube uh it's been really phenomenal
we're raiding right now so people are no
longer here it's just us
thank you for the likes like thank you
for the comments and thank you for
sharing it with everyone alright peace